# Actuarial Theory and Practice A

# Team Justin Submission 
### By Justin Gonzaga, Hillary Ngo, Steven Lim, Zilin Shao, Edward Santoso

It is well known that competitive sports teams can promote economic prosperity for a country. With plenty of high-achieving football players available, the main objective is to set up a national brand by establishing a competitive team. A strong team can compete internationally, increasing nation’s visibility to promote investment, tourism and political influence. The resultant economic benefit is projected and critically analysed by applying key economic indices and cost-benefit analysis to achieve key objectives.

This report details the construction of a competitive national football team as requested by the Commissioner of Sport for Rarita. The team selection criteria is divided into the different positions and scored using the CPP method. This relies on the players statistics derived from data provided by Valani Global and the assumptions made to alleviate the data limitations. The implementation plan for the national team is subject to a funding constraint that will be mainly distributed to cover staff and player expenditures and receive revenues from matchdays, broadcasts and commercials. The key metrics on FSA rankings, net revenue and GDP per capita will be reviewed yearly for the next 10 years to monitor the implementation plan.

Economic impact of the national team on Rarita’s GDP is insignificant as proven through Linear regression. This result is unexpected and partly attributed to the limited data of countries with “competitive” teams, the geographical population of Rarita and information on household savings. Hence, Rarita’s future economy is largely dependent on current and expected trends in expenses and revenues.

The risks associated with building a national football team to promote economic prosperity include strategic, financial and operational risks. These predominately result from players inability to perform or barriers in Rarita’s economy that will prevent significant long-term growth. Fortunately, many of the risks can be mitigated albeit with additional costs. Nevertheless, these risks can have a profound effect on the implementation plan as evidenced in the sensitivity analysis conducted using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The average profit tended towards –$3800 doubloons during unfavourably tail risk events.
